Hello, before we get into today's video, I've got a quick,
exciting announcement.
I've partnered with amazed to give you guys the chance to win a Tesla model less
than $20,000 taxes and shipping are included for us residents,
even better. Every donation benefits to great causes,
give power and 5 0 1 C three. All you have to do is go to
is.com/biographics and enter the chance to win. Now, of course,
it's nice to give my knee to charity, but Hey, you can also win a Tesla or more.
Do I need to say this is without doubt,
one of the coolest promotions we've done on this channel.
So if you think that you'd look cool, riding around in a nude, well,
good news and below in all seriousness,
this is a para great causes you can support.
So if that sounds good to you go and surf your chance to win a Tesla model S and
$20,000 at amazed.com/biographics. And like I said,
every donation supports two great charities.
It's a win-win and let's get into the video.
Before Marilyn Monroe and Jane Mansfield, there was Jean har.
She was one of Hollywood's earliest sex symbols,
whose image revolved around her luscious curls with a unique color that under
the Monica, the platinum blonde inate her,
the envy of women all across the nation who tried and failed to achieve the same
locks of hair. Her Luke brought her success,
but it came with a heavy price as the same beauty regimen that trans formed Jean
Harlow into a household name was also slowly but surely poisoning her inevitably
Harlow fell into one of the many pitfalls of Hollywood and died at a young age,
after a prolonged suffering. She became a caution tale.
Another one of tinsel towns,
tragic stories in an industry that is filled with them even.
So Jean Harlow's legacy goes beyond the mistakes and vices.
She in pursuit of fame and fortune,
and today we will examine it close up.
As we take a look at the life and career of gene Harlow,
the original blonde bombshell
Gene Harlow was born Harlene carpenter on the 3rd of March, 1911 in Kansas city,
Missouri, she was born into a wealthy but unhappy family. Her father,
Montclair carpenter was a dentist with a thriving practice while her mother Jean
Poe carpenter was the daughter of a successful real estate agent named Samuel
Harlow. Later when Jean Harlow became a star using her mother's maiden name,
Jean Poe carpenter went by mother Jean in order to set us off apart.
But we to call her that from the beginning, just to avoid any confusion.
Young Harlene spent the first 10 years of her life in Kansas city,
enrolling at Ms. Barstow's finishing school for girls when she was five in 1921.
However,
mother Jean divorced her husbands and one saw custody of Harlene and promptly
left Missouri in her early thirties. Mother,
Jean still saw herself as young and beautiful,
and she had dreamt of becoming an actress ever since she was a child.
She took her daughter and traveled to Los Angeles,
hoping to make it big but soon found out just how cruel Hollywood could be.
Although she was young, she was not. Moviestar young.
As studios were only interested in women in their early twenties or younger.
So the mother and daughter relocated again this time to Illinois in Chicago,
mother, Jean married her second husband, a man named Marino Bello.
That's for Harlene. She fell in love with a boy,
a few years older than her name's Charles char McGoo their relationship soon
turned serious. And the couple eloped in September, 1927,
when Harlene was 16 years old, Charles McGoo was a trust fund baby.
And once he turned 21, he received his first check, the UN born now wealthy.
They didn't need to work.
So instead they moved to Los Angeles and bought a nice house in Beverly Hills,
where they quickly developed a reputation for being a party couple who often
hosted luncheon barbecues and other social gatherings. At this time,
Harlene still had no grand ambitions about becoming an actress. Her far end,
a Hollywood was mostly happen star during her party.
She befriended an aspiring actress named Rosa Roy.
And one day she gave Rosalie a ride to the Fox studios.
Lot for an audition while waiting Harlene was approached by a few studio execs
who immediately noticed the young,
beautiful blondes and were very surprised to find out that she wasn't an actress
even. So they told her that she had the look for it,
and they gave her a letter of introduction for central casting.
In case she wanted to try a hand at doing some work as an extra. Initially,
she had no intention of going there, but was goed into doing it by Rosalie.
When she signed up, she didn't want to use her real name.
So instead she wrote down her mother's maiden name, Jean Harlow,
Speaking of mother, Jean,
although her daughter had eloped and moved to another city,
two of them were still close.
When she found out about Jean being discovered by movie execs,
she realized that she could live our Hollywood fantasy vicariously through her
daughter. She also encouraged Jean to accept work as an extra,
eventually moving to Los Angeles herself in order to manage her daughter's
burdening career. In 1928,
Jean hollow appeared in her first movie as an uncredited, extra drama by our,
for any green titled on a bound, a few more bit parts followed.
And they were enough to impress the executives at how Roach studios who offered
Gina contract. In 1929,
she started having small roles in some of the studios made money makers,
including comedy short,
starring Charlie chase and Lauren LA Hardy in the movie bacon grabbers Jean even
received her first co-starring credit as Mrs. Kennedy.
After previously only appearing in unnamed or unaccredited roles,
it seems like Jean Harlow's star was on the rise,
but things were not going well at home.
Her husband's truck McGoo was not thrilled with his wife's new career and he
wanted her to quit acting.
She actually relented at first and pleaded with the studio to release her from a
contract. They agreed to do this around the time that Jean turned 18 years old,
but just a few months later, her, she left her husband. Anyway,
presumably this was the work of mother Jean who persuaded her daughter to choose
a career in Hollywood over a marriage. Soon after leaving grew,
Jean hollow began appearing in movies. Again,
her first speaking role came in the 1929 Clara bow feature.
The Saturday night kid into a big break was just around the corner.
This period represented a turning point for Hollywood.
Thanks to the arrival of San. Oh yes, they have it all answer. The movement.
Silent films were slowly being faded out in favor of talkies.
And many actors of the silent era also found their careers waning as directors
and movie producers felt that their voices did not have the same star quality
that matched their looks.
One actress in the situation was Greta Nien born and raised in Norway.
She had a heavy Ning accent, which up until their point had not been a problem.
However, in 1928, she signed onto star and Howard Hughes's epic war film,
Hells angels.
This was an incredibly ambitious and expensive production for the time.
One that employed 20,000 extras and used over 2.2 million feet of
film as a successful entrepreneur and pioneering aviator himself.
Howard Hughes was nothing if not a risk taker.
So he wanted to incorporate all the latest filming techniques available at the
time.
Almost half of the film was shown in tinted colors while one particular scene in
a ballroom used an even more advanced two color technical process.
Then in 1929, even though filming was mostly finished,
Hughes decided that he wanted to transform hell's angels from a silent film,
into a talkie and a reshoot. All of the scenes with dialogue.
This created a problem with the leading lady, as we mentioned,
GRE had a sick Norwegian accent,
but she was supposed to portray a British Aris Tora.
Eventually Hughes dismissed her from the role and the search began for a new
actress. How exactly Hughes found out about gene remains uncertain.
Although most stories say that it was his leading man, Ben Leon,
who suggested her for the role Hughes gave her the part and Jean Harlow is now
finally set on her path to stardom hell's angels premiers on may the 27th,
1930 at grins Chinese theater in Hollywood.
It was a hit and it received praise from everyone for its flying scenes,
but HARs acting didn.
He win anyone over one newspaper even described her as plain awful.
This was not a particular surprise.
She was still only 18 when she shot her scenes and never had any formal
training, even. So it wasn't her acting pros that lured in the audience.
This was Preco Hollywood and movies that plenty of sexual contents as
evidenced by the promotional photograph used to market the movie featuring
Harlow and Ben Leon, even the poster of the movie gave the unknown gene Harlow,
top billing as Hughes knew that a sexy seductive starlet would attract more
attention at the very least hollows were all allowed her to imortalize herself
in the ans of cinema with a memorable line that has been adapted and repeated
countless times.
Although most people probably don't know where it originally came from when she
asks one of her male co-leads.
Would you be shocked if I put on something more comfortable.
Despite the success of hell's angels,
Howard Hughes had no immediate plans to use gene Harlow in another movies.
So he loaned around to other studios to keep her in the spotlight.
Back then during the studio system days,
actors could not cherry only the roles they wanted to.
They usually signed a long term contract with a specific movie studio in
exchange for a weekly salary. And the execs decided what films they would make.
1931 was a great year for hollow as she Stard in popular movies,
such as the secret six with Clark Gable and the public enemy with James Cagney.
Meanwhile,
Hughes put the might of his marketing department behind Harlow intending to turn
her are into a household name, rival studio paramount at Clara bow,
who was known as the it girl United artists at Mary Pickford, AKA America,
sweet art Hughes decided that Harlow also needed a Mo some ideas such as the
blondes landslide and the darling cyclone were dismissed. Allegedly.
It was Hughes's publicity director who came up with the winning answer,
the platinum blonde after all it was Harlow's stunning golden locks that
immediately drew the attention of the viewer. Much more than acting Hughes,
even launched a national contest,
offering a prize of $10,000 to any stylist who could match the color of a hair.
Nobody ever claimed.
Although this might be because no other stylist would have thought to subject
their clients, the kind of treatment that Harlow was receiving.
But more on that later,
the point is that the name was a hit with the public and one of Harlow's movies
from 1931,
even at its title changed to platinum blondes to fully capitalize on the
popularity of the nickname. Harlow's other well known.
Monica came in 1933 when she starred in comedy bombshell from then on,
she became known as the blonde bombshell and in 1942,
the word bombshell was amended in the Oxford English dictionary to include the
meaning of a pretty woman of startling vitality or physique.
Although her career was flourishing Hollow's personal life was not doing so well
while working on hell's angels. She met producer Paul burn,
who turned into one of her biggest support backstage.
The two first became friends then started dating and finally married in July of
1932, just two months later,
burn was found dead of a gunshot wounds in his house.
And the exact circumstances behind his death are still a mystery to this date.
Officially, it was quickly ruled a suicide since there was a note left behind,
which said, dear is dear. Unfortunately, this is the only way to make good,
the frightful wrong. I have done you. And to wipe out my object humiliation.
I love you, Paul. You understand that last night was only a comedy. However,
decades later,
the investigation was criticized for being haphazard and whitewashed and tainted
by studio interference,
which was done in order to protect gene Harlow's image rather than to find the
truth behind Paul Burn's death later off,
as even claimed that the studio execs led by Lewis B mayor were the first on the
scene before the police and that the officers were okay with this.
Since many of them were being paid off by studio fixers in order to look the
other way,
when it came to crimes that might tarnish the reputations of the stars,
allegedly Mayer even wanted to destroy the note, but was persuaded to leave it.
So that burns death,
that like a suicide caused by his inability to fulfill his marital obligations,
AKA impotence, for all we know this could have been the truth,
but it's impossible to tell since the execs could have altered the crime scene.
In other ways that we don't know about one theory that has gained attention over
the last decades,
pointed the finger as a woman named Dorothy millet burns former common law wife.
Technically the two were still married. Although burn left her.
When she checked herself into a Sanitarium, once she was out burn,
started corresponding with her and sent her money every month.
Millet committed suicide just a few days after Burn's death and rumors started
appearing that she may have been involved.
Somehow these were never substantiated that the tale of the SCO former lover was
just too obvious, a scenario to ignore as for Jean Harlow,
she was not home when be died during the investigation.
She only said that she knew not nothing and refuse to discuss the matter in
public for the rest of our life. Most likely at the insistence of the studio,
Even though Howard Hughes invested heavily in promoting gene Harlow as the
platinum blonds, he sold her contracts in 1932 to MGM.
This was when Paul burn was still alive as he was an executive at MGM and
persuaded the higher ups that she'd make a good investments.
Jean Harlow's first movie with MGM was called redheaded woman comedy that
received critical acclaim was one of the few roles that garner Harlow praise for
her acting. It also had a lot of risk gay content for that time,
such as affairs, premarital sex, and attempted murder.
But the most surprising thing about it was that the actress didn't make use of
her signature platinum Blon curl.
Since that the title implies the lead character was a redhead.
Although her character dies her hair in the first scene of the movie in real
life, Jean Harlow wore a wig afterwards.
The actress returned to our trademark Luke in a string of movies with varying
degrees of success hits included the a mentioned bombshell and the romantic
dramas red dust and hold your man who actually starred alongside Clark Gable.
Her most frequent onscreen partner Harlow could not find the same success in a
personal life though.
In 1933 came the third husband a cinematographer named how Rosson,
who had previously worked with the us on several movies.
It had often been reported that this marriage had been arranged by MGM to
protect Harley's reputation prior to our relationship with Ross.
And she had been engaged in a romantic twist with boxer max bear,
who at the time was separated, but not divorced from his wife, actress,
Dorothy Dunbar, not only was this affair pretty well known in Hollywood,
but Dunbar also threatened to name Jean Harley in her divorce proceedings for
engaging in adultery with her husband.
Eventually the studio stepped in and insisted not only that hollow enter
flinging with bear,
but that she enter into a more appropriate relationship with the sake of a
public image. Unsurprisingly,
her marriage with Rosson was short and Loveless a few weeks after the wedding
hollow was rushed the hospital for an emergency appendectomy afterwards,
instead of returning home,
the actress moved in with mother Jean during her con a license.
She quietly divorced Ross about seven months later,
this was Harlow's last marriage.
Although she soon entered into a long term relationship with actor William
Powell that lasted into her death
Due to Harlow's personal and health problems.
1934 was a lean year for her career. She only appeared in the romantic comedy.
The girl from Missouri, the following year, however,
was meant to be a return for the blond bombshell starring opposite CLA Gable.
Again in the maritime adventure, China sees the movie was a Hearns,
but her medical issues,
lifestyle and beauty treatments were starting to take a to on the young starlet.
Jean Harlow had never been a picture of health when she was a child.
She had suffered from meningitis PO and Scarlet fever as an actress.
She was often on very unhealthy diets in order to stay thin.
And she had been a heavy drinker for most of her time spent in Los Angeles ever
since she came though with her first husband.
And then of course there were the hair treatments.
Publicly Harlow always maintained that her hair was natural blonde,
but it was only after her death that her stylist detailed the extreme procedure.
She underwent in order to achieve her unique PLA of color.
She used a special concoction made out of peroxide, Luxe, brand soap, lakes,
ammonia, Rin, Clorox bleach.
Those last two were particularly bad because combined they make hydrochloric
acid, a strong solution,
which can be found in the gastric acid inside our stomachs and hollow used this
substance on her hair. Once a week,
the mixed ger might have resulted in a unique shade of blondes,
but unsurprisingly,
it was also extremely dangerous and unhealthy by the time Harlow began work on
China season,
her hair had already started falling out in clumps and she was forced to wear a
wig for the duration of the filming. Afterwards,
she abandoned this beauty treatments and adopted more conventional ways of
coloring her hair.
The damage was already done despite her failing health Harlow was pressured to
keep working by the studio and by her mother. So she filmed four movies in 1936,
always receiving top billing, even over other top Hollywood stars of that era,
such as Carrie grant or Spencer Traci, there was no denying her popularity,
but her body simply could not keep up with the demand.
In early 1937 Harlow fell ill with what was believed to be at the time, the flu,
but looking back on it,
it could have been the early stages of something much more serious.
There was not only neglect from the people around her regarding her health,
but Harlow's constant drinking could have obscured some symptoms,
which if court early could have helped save her life. But since time was money,
the actress had to get back to work.
As soon as she was physically able in March 1930s,
seven gene Harlow began work on what would turn out to be her last movie,
another romantic comedy starring opposite Clark Gable titled Saratoga. However,
almost immediately the platinum blonde was dealing with another health issue and
production had to shut down.
Harlow had a mouth infection and she needed all of her wisdom teeth removed to
save time.
Her mother insisted that all 40 were extracted during the same operation.
This was a risky which even caused Harlow's heart to stop beating briefly during
the surgery, despite all of this,
she was not given sufficient time to recuperate. And in April,
she was back on set, even though she had still drained fluid from her mouth.
And she often dealt with bouts of vomiting and abdominal pain.
It was pretty clear that nobody around Harlow cared about her wellbeing or at
the very least not as much as they cared about her career.
Her body could only takes so much. And the predictable happened.
Jean ALO collapsed on set and was taken home.
A doctor diagnosed her with an inflamed Gallad and gave her injections that
should have treated the condition.
She was expected back on set in early June when she didn't show up a co-star
Clark Gable paid a at home and body saw shock him.
Halle had bloated to almost twice her size and she emanated a roting mouth from
her mouth. These were both signs that her kidneys were not working properly.
Another doctor correctly diagnosed that she was suffering from kidney failure.
Unfortunately, neither dialysis or kidney transplants existed back then.
So there was nothing they could do to help her. On June the sixth,
gene Harlow was taken to the hospital where she fell into a coma and she died
the next day, just 26 years old in the decades that followed a room of sister,
that it was Harlow's extreme hair coloring treatments that caused her death.
This has generally been dismissed and although the exact causes are still
undetermined, it is believed that the Scarlet fever,
which Harlow contracted when she was 15,
became the main contributor to her kidney disease. After her death,
the studio wanted to reshoot Saratoga with a different actress,
but following a public outcry from Harlow's fans,
they finished at using a standin.
This photograph was taken onset shortly before Harlow's collapse.
And as it was distributed frequently following her death,
it became the lasting image that the public had of the platinum blonde who took
Hollywood by storm. So I really hope you enjoyed this video.
Thanks again to amaze for sponsoring it.
Please remember you can donate and enter for a chance to win a Tesla and some
extra stuff as well. There's a link below, or just go to amaz.com/biographics.
And thank you for watching.